---
title: "py3status v3.16"
date: "2019-01-20"
categories: 
  - "linux"
tags: 
  - "gentoo"
  - "portage"
  - "py3status"
  - "release"
---

Two **py3status** versions in less than a month? That's the holidays effect but not only!

Our community has been busy discussing our way forward to 4.0 (see below) and organization so it was time I wrote a bit about that.

## Community

### A new collaborator

First of all we have the great pleasure and honor to welcome Maxim Baz @**maximbaz** as a new collaborator on the project!  
  
His engagement, numerous contributions and insightful reviews to py3status has made him a well known community member, not to mention his IRC support :)  
  
Once again, thank you for being there Maxim!

### Zen of py3status

As a result of an interesting discussion, we worked on defining better [how to contribute to py3status](https://py3status.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contributing.html#contributing) as well as a set of guidelines we agree on to get the project moving on smoothly.  
  
Here is born the [zen of py3status](https://py3status.readthedocs.io/en/latest/contributing.html#zen) which extends the [philosophy](https://py3status.readthedocs.io/en/latest/intro.html#philosophy) from the user point of view to the contributor point of view!  
  
This allowed us to handle the numerous open pull requests and get their number down to 5 at the time of writing this post!  
  
Even our dear @lasers don't have any open PR anymore :)

## 3.15 + 3.16 versions

Our magic @**lasers** has worked a lot on [general modules options](https://py3status.readthedocs.io/en/latest/configuration.html#py3status-configuration-section) as well as adding support for **i3-gaps** added features such as border coloring and fine tuning.  
  
Also interesting is the work of Thiago Kenji Okada @**m45t3r** around [NixOS packaging of py3status](https://twitter.com/k0kada/status/1079206973671964673). Thanks a lot for this work and for sharing Thiago!

I also liked the question of Andreas Lundblad @**aioobe** [asking if we could have a feature allowing to display a custom graphical output](https://github.com/ultrabug/py3status/issues/1610), such as a small PNG or anything upon clicking on the i3bar, you might be interested in following up the [i3 issue he opened](https://github.com/i3/i3/issues/3578).  
  
Make sure to read the amazing [changelog](https://github.com/ultrabug/py3status/blob/master/CHANGELOG) for details, a lot of modules have been enhanced!

### Highlights

- You can now set a background, border colors and their urgent counterparts on a global scale or per module
- CI now checks for black format on modules, so now all the code base obey the black format style!
- All HTTP requests based modules now have a [standard way to define HTTP timeout](https://py3status.readthedocs.io/en/latest/configuration.html#request-timeout) as well as the same 10 seconds default timeout
- py3-cmd now allows sending **click events with modifiers**
- The py3status **\-n / --interval command line argument has been removed** as it was obsolete. We will ignore it if you have set it up, but better remove it to be clean
- You can specify your own i3status binary path using the new **\-u, --i3status** command line argument thanks to @Dettorer and @lasers
- Since Yahoo! decided to retire its public & free weather API, the **weather_yahoo module has been removed**

### New modules

- new **conky** module: display conky system monitoring (#1664), by lasers
- new module **emerge_status**: display information about running gentoo emerge (#1275), by AnwariasEu
- new module **hueshift**: change your screen color temperature (#1142), by lasers
- new module **mega_sync**: to check for MEGA service synchronization (#1458), by Maxim Baz
- new module **speedtest**: to check your internet bandwidth (#1435), by cyrinux
- new module **usbguard**: control usbguard from your bar (#1376), by cyrinux
- new module **velib_metropole**: display velib metropole stations and (e)bikes (#1515), by cyrinux

## A word on 4.0

Do you wonder what's gonna be in the 4.0 release?  
Do you have ideas that you'd like to share?  
Do you have dreams that you'd love to become true?  
  
Then make sure to [read and participate in the open RFC on 4.0 version](https://github.com/ultrabug/py3status/issues/1584)!  
  
Development has not started yet; we really want to hear from you.

## Thank you contributors!

There would be no py3status release without our amazing contributors, so thank you guys!

- AnwariasEu
- cyrinux
- Dettorer
- ecks
- flyingapfopenguin
- girst
- Jack Doan
- justin j lin
- Keith Hughitt
- L0ric0
- lasers
- Maxim Baz
- oceyral
- Simon Legner
- sridhars
- Thiago Kenji Okada
- Thomas F. Duellmann
- Till Backhaus
