---
title: "rsyslog v7.6.3"
date: "2014-05-23"
categories: 
  - "linux"
tags: 
  - "gentoo"
  - "portage"
  - "release"
  - "rsyslog"
---

This version bump was long overdue sorry and it has happened only thanks to the great work of Thomas D. aka @**Whissi**, thanks again mate.

Please read carefully because this version introduces [major ebuild changes](https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=501988), **you'll probably have to adapt your current configuration !**

## ebuild changes

- New default configuration with up to date syntax, [we changed a lot of things](https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=501982) so I'll quote the README coming with this bump.

"/var/log/syslog" log file is now deprecated

   Beginning with rsyslog-7.6, the "/var/log/syslog" log file will no
   longer being written per default. We are considering this file as
   deprecated/obsolet for the typical user/system.
   The content from this log file is still availble through other
   (dedicated) log files, see

     - /var/log/cron.log
     - /var/log/daemon.log
     - /var/log/mail.log
     - /var/log/messages

   If you really need the old "/var/log/syslog" log file, all you have to
   do is uncommenting the corresponding configuration directive in
   "/etc/rsyslog.d/50-default.conf".

   If you do so, don't forget to re-enable log rotation in
   "/etc/logrotate.d/rsyslog", too.

- An additional input socket in **/var/empty/dev/log** (default chroot location) [will be created per default](https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=490744)
- brand new and modern init script

## rsyslog-7.6.3

Coming from the [rsyslog release announcement page](http://www.rsyslog.com/news/release-announcement/), this is what happened with the 7.6 branch release :

With 7.6 being the successor of the 7.5 development branch, everything that has been added there has now found its way into the stable version.

The major additions consist of :
- imrelp/omrelp now support TLS & (zip) compression
- impstats is now emitting resource usage counters, can directly emit delta values and can now be bound to a ruleset
- mmpstrucdata is a new module to parse RFC5424 structured data into JSON message properties
- mmutf8fix is a new module to fix invalid UTF-8 sequences
- mmsequence is a new module that helps with action load balancing
- new defaults for main/ruleset queues to be more enterprise-like

Also the new stable version has undergone a lot of bug fixes, performance improvements and optimizations that make rsyslog 7.6 a lot more reliable and performing than before.
