---
title: "mongoDB v2.6.1"
date: "2014-05-14"
categories: 
  - "linux"
tags: 
  - "gentoo"
  - "mongodb"
  - "nosql"
  - "portage"
  - "release"
---

This is a great pleasure to announce the [version bump](https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=508190) of **mongoDB** to the brand new **v2.6** stable branch !

This bump is not trivial and comes with a lot of changes, **please read carefully as you will have to modify your mongodb configuration files !**

## ebuild changes

As a long time request and to be more in line with upstream's recommendations (and systemd support) **I moved the configuration of the mongoDB daemons to /etc** so make sure to adapt to the [new YAML format](http://docs.mongodb.org/manual/reference/configuration-options/).

- the mongodb configuration moved from /etc/conf.d/mongodb to the new YAML formatted **/etc/mongodb.conf**
- the mongos configuration moved from /etc/conf.d/mongos to the new YAML formatted **/etc/mongos.conf**
- the MMS agent configuration file has moved to **/etc/mms-agent.conf**

The init scripts also have been taken care of :

- new and modern mongodb, mongos and mms-agent init scripts
- their /etc/conf.d/ configuration files are only used to modify the init script's behavior

## highlights

The changelog is long and the goal of this post is not to give you an already well covered topic on [the release notes](http://docs.mongodb.org/master/release-notes/2.6/) but here are my favorite features :

- MongoDB preserves the **order of the document fields** following write operations.
- A new write protocol integrates write operations with write concerns. The protocol also provides improved support for **bulk operations**.
- MongoDB can now use **index intersection** to fulfill queries supported by more than one index.
- **Index Filters** to limit which indexes can become the winning plan for a query.
- **Background index** build allowed **on secondaries**.
- New cleanupOrphaned command to **remove orphaned documents from a shard**.
- **usePowerOf2Sizes** is now the default allocation strategy for all new collections.
- **Removed upward limit of 20 000 connections** for the maxIncomingConnections for mongod and mongos.
- New cursor.maxTimeMS() and corresponding maxTimeMS option for commands to **specify a time limit**.

Make sure you follow the official [upgrade plan](http://docs.mongodb.org/master/release-notes/2.6-upgrade/) to upgrade from a previous version, this release is not a simple drop-in replacement.

## thanks

Special thanks go to Johan Bergström for his continuous efforts and responsiveness as well as Mike Limansky and Jason A. Donenfeld.
