---
title: "mongoDB 3.0.1"
date: "2015-03-17"
categories: 
  - "linux"
tags: 
  - "gentoo"
  - "mongodb"
  - "nosql"
  - "portage"
---

This is [a quite awaited version bump](https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=540460) coming to portage and I'm glad to announce it's made its way to the tree today !

I'll right away thank a lot **Tomas Mozes** and **Darko Luketic** for their amazing help, feedback and patience !

## mongodb-3.0.1

I introduced quite some changes in this ebuild which I wanted to share with you and warn you about. MongoDB upstream have stripped quite a bunch of things out of the main mongo core repository which I have in turn split into ebuilds.

Major changes :

- [respect upstream's optimization flags](https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=536688) : unless in debug build, user's optimization flags will be ignored to [prevent crashes and weird behaviour](https://bugs.gentoo.org/show_bug.cgi?id=526114).
- shared libraries for C/C++ are not built by the core mongo repository anymore, so I removed the static-libs USE flag.
- various dependencies optimization to trigger a rebuild of mongoDB when one of its linked dependency changes.

## app-admin/mongo-tools

The new **tools** USE flag allows you to pull a new ebuild named **app-admin/mongo-tools** which installs the commands listed below. Obviously, you can now just install this package if you only need those tools on your machine.

- mongodump / mongorestore
- mongoexport / mongoimport
- mongotop
- mongofiles
- mongooplog
- mongostat
- bsondump

## app-admin/mms-agent

The MMS agent has now some real version numbers and I don't have to host their source on Gentoo's infra woodpecker. At the moment there is only the monitoring agent available, shall anyone request the backup one, I'll be glad to add its support too.

## dev-libs/mongo-c(xx)-driver

I took this opportunity to add the **dev-libs/mongo-cxx-driver** to the tree and bump the mongo-c-driver one. Thank you to Balint SZENTE for his insight on this.
