---
title: "py3status v2.4"
date: "2015-03-31"
categories: 
  - "linux"
tags: 
  - "gentoo"
  - "py3status"
  - "release"
---

I'm very pleased to announce this new release of **py3status** because it is by far the most contributed one with a total of 33 files changed, 1625 insertions and 509 deletions !

I'll start by thanking this release's **contributors** with a special mention for **Federico Ceratto** for his precious insights, his CLI idea and implementation and other modules contributions.

## Thank you

- Federico Ceratto
- @rixx (and her amazing reactivity)
- J.M. Dana
- @Gamonics
- @guilbep
- @lujeni
- @obb
- @shankargopal
- @thomas-

## IMPORTANT

In order to keep a clean and efficient code base, **this is the last version of py3status supporting the legacy modules loading and ordering**, this behavior will be dropped on the next 2.5 version !

## CLI commands

**py3status** now supports some CLI commands which allows you to **get information about all the available modules and their documentation**.

- **list all available modules**

_if you specify your own inclusion folder(s) with the -i parameter, your modules will be listed too !_

$ py3status modules list
Available modules:
  battery\_level          Display the battery level.
  bitcoin\_price          Display bitcoin prices using bitcoincharts.com.
  bluetooth              Display bluetooth status.
  clementine             Display the current "artist - title" playing in Clementine.
  dpms                   Activate or deactivate DPMS and screen blanking.
  glpi                   Display the total number of open tickets from GLPI.
  imap                   Display the unread messages count from your IMAP account.
  keyboard\_layout        Display the current keyboard layout.
  mpd\_status             Display information from mpd.
  net\_rate               Display the current network transfer rate.
  netdata                Display network speed and bandwidth usage.
  ns\_checker             Display DNS resolution success on a configured domain.
  online\_status          Display if a connection to the internet is established.
  pingdom                Display the latest response time of the configured Pingdom checks.
  player\_control         Control music/video players.
  pomodoro               Display and control a Pomodoro countdown.
  scratchpad\_counter     Display the amount of windows in your i3 scratchpad.
  spaceapi               Display if your favorite hackerspace is open or not.
  spotify                Display information about the current song playing on Spotify.
  sysdata                Display system RAM and CPU utilization.
  vnstat                 Display vnstat statistics.
  weather\_yahoo          Display Yahoo! Weather forecast as icons.
  whoami                 Display the currently logged in user.
  window\_title           Display the current window title.
  xrandr                 Control your screen(s) layout easily.

- **get available modules details and configuration**

$ py3status modules details
Available modules:
  battery\_level          Display the battery level.
                         
                         Configuration parameters:
                             - color\_\* : None means - get it from i3status config
                             - format : text with "text" mode. percentage with % replaces {}
                             - hide\_when\_full : hide any information when battery is fully charged
                             - mode : for primitive-one-char bar, or "text" for text percentage ouput
                         
                         Requires:
                             - the 'acpi' command line
                         
                         @author shadowprince, AdamBSteele
                         @license Eclipse Public License
                         ---
\[...\]

## Modules changelog

- new **bluetooth** module by J.M. Dana
- new **online\_status** module by @obb
- new **player\_control** module, by Federico Ceratto
- new **spotify** module, by Pierre Guilbert
- new **xrandr** module to handle your screens layout from your bar
- **dpms** module activate/deactivate the screensaver as well
- **imap** module various configuration and optimizations
- **pomodoro** module can use DBUS notify, play sounds and be paused
- **spaceapi** module bugfix for space APIs without 'lastchange' field
- **keyboard\_layout** module incorrect parsing of "setxkbmap -query"
- **battery\_level** module better python3 compatibility

## Other highlights

[Full changelog here](https://github.com/ultrabug/py3status/commit/042241de7eb66a3359800d94a516f2d38f4e2ee2).

- **catch daylight savings time change**
- ensure **modules methods are always iterated alphabetically**
- refactor default config file detection
- rename and move the empty\_class example module to the doc/ folder
- remove obsolete i3bar\_click\_events module
- py3status will soon be [available on debian](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=780806) thx to Federico Ceratto !
